# JR data: 'Unpublished poems' of the Finnish Literature Society
JR (_Julkaisemattomat runot_) is a corpus created to supplement the published SKVR book series (_Suomen Kansan Vanhat Runot_, 'The old poems of the Finnic people', 1908–1948, 1997) of runosongs, also called Kalevalaic poems. This is a restricted version where the personal data of informants born less than hundred years ago has been removed. The master version of the data is in the archives of the Finnish Literature Society.

The corpus was created as a card file copied from the archival manuscripts, starting in 1969–1973 and continuing to the early 1990s. It was made into digital ltext form in SKS and Estonian Literary Museum at the beginning of 2000s.

JR contains poems that were 1) not yet in the archives when the book series was edited, 2) left out due to characteristics that were seen as inappropriate, poor, personally created (not seen as authentic folklore), bearing literary influences etc., and 3) belonging to other genres that were missing from other card files or not in runosong meter, such as various kinds of songs for children, rhymed folk songs (also those of literary origin), laments, imitations of nature sounds, Vepsian songs not in runosong meter and a couple of even Sami joiks.
The corpus is not complete (not all the archival series and manusripts were gone through), it contains copying and ORC errors, and errors with the metadata. Some corrections and harmonisation of the metadata are done in the FILTER project by Jukka Saarinen and Maciej Janicki in 2021–2023.
